Rafaelpadilla/object detection leaderboard (#1461)
huggingface/blog: object-detection-leaderboard.md

> ---

Author: :heavy_check_mark: Done!

> title: "Object Detection Leaderboard"

Author: Do I need special permission for that?
My steps:
1) I cloned the repo `https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images`
2) Created a new branch `object-detection-leaderboard`
3) Added the images to a new folder `documentation-images/blog/object-detection-leaderboard`
4) When I push `git push --set-upstream origin object-detection-leaderboard`, I get the following error: 
```
batch response: Authorization error. B | 0 B/s                                  
error: failed to push some refs to 'https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images'
```

> title: "Object Detection Leaderboard"

Author: And then, all images should be pointing to `https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/blob/main/blog/object-detection-leaderboard/my-image.png` right?

What about the folder `assets/object-detection-leaderboard` in this current repo? Should I also keep all images here too?

> title: "Object Detection Leaderboard"

Reviewer: You should now have permissions to modify the repository! My suggestion is to go to https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions and then open a PR. It should then give you instructions to clone and upload to the right branch.

In the GitHub repo, only the thumbnail image should remain. All other assets should be directly downloaded from the HF repository.

> title: "Object Detection Leaderboard"

Author: Thank you for the instructions and access. :pray: 
PR is opened [here](https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/discussions/183).  :smiley: 

Once it is approved, I will change all references of images to point to their path relative to the repo https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images

> title: "Object Detection Leaderboard"

Author: Done!

> title: "Object Detection Leaderboard"

Author: :heavy_check_mark: Done :)

The following image, for instance, shows 5 detections, being 1 “ball” with confidence of 98% and 4 “person” with confidences 98%, 95%, 97% and 97%.

<!-- ![image](assets/object-detection-leaderboard/intro_object_detection.png)
Figure 1: Example of outputs performed by an object detector. -->

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/intro_object_detection.png" alt="intro_object_detection.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 1: Example of outputs performed by an object detector.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

> Object detection models are versatile and have a wide range of applications across various domains. Some use cases where they are applied are **autonomous vehicles**, **face detection**, **surveillance and security**, **medical imaging**, **augmented reality**, **sport analysis**, **smart cities**, **gesture recognition**, etc.

Author: :heavy_check_mark: Done

## Metrics

In this section, we will delve into the definition of Average Precision, Average Recall, its variations and the computation methodologies associated with them.

### What's Average Precision and how to compute it?

Average Precision is a single-number metric that summarizes the precision-recall curve. It captures the ability of a model to classify and localize objects correctly, while taking into account both false positive and false negative detections.

Every box predicted by the model is considered a “positive” detection. Based on a criteria known as Intersection over Union (IoU) between the predicted box and a ground-truth annotation, a detection is categorized either as a true positive (TP) or a false positive (FP). 

> The IoU measures the overlap between the predicted bounding box and the actual (ground truth) bounding box. It's computed by dividing the area where the two boxes overlap by the area covered by both boxes combined. Figure 3 visually demonstrates the IoU using an example of a predicted box and its corresponding ground-truth box.

Author: I restructured this part addressing your suggestion :)

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/iou.png" alt="iou.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 3: Intersection over Union (IoU) between a detection (in green) and ground-truth (in blue).</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

> Clearly, if both the ground-truth and detected boxes share identical coordinates, representing the same region in the image, their IoU value is 1. Conversely, if the boxes do not overlap at any pixel, the IoU is considered to be 0.

Author: I adopted another suggestion that changed this paragraph.

> In scenarios where high precision in detections is expected (e.g. an autonomous vehicle), the predicted bounding boxes should closely align with the ground-truth boxes. For that, a IoU threshold ( \\( \text{T}_{\text{IOU}} \\) ) approaching 1 is preferred. On the other hand, for applications where the exact position of the detected bounding boxes relative to the target object isn’t critical, the threshold can be relaxed, setting \\( \text{T}_{\text{IOU}} \\) closer to 0.

Author: Well observed :) 
Fixed!

Now that we can identify our TPs, FPs and FNs, we can define Precision and Recall:

* **Precision** is the ability of a model to identify only the relevant objects. It is the percentage of correct positive predictions and is given by:

<p style="text-align: center;">
\\( \text{Precision} = \frac{TP}{(TP + FP)} = \frac{TP}{\text{all detections}} \\)
</p>

which translates to the ratio of true positives over all detected boxes.

* **Recall** gauges a model’s competence in finding all the relevant cases (all ground truth bounding boxes). It indicates the proportion of TP detected among all ground truths and is given by:

<p style="text-align: center;">
\\( \text{Recall} = \frac{TP}{(TP + FN)} = \frac{TP}{\text{all ground truths}} \\)
</p>

Note that TP, FP and FN depend on a predefined IoU threshold, and so do Precision and Recall.

Now, we'll illustrate the relationship between Precision and Recall by plotting their respective curves for a specific target class, say "dog".  We’ll adopt a moderate IoU threshold = 75% to delineate our TP, FP and FN. Subsequently we can compute the Precision and Recall values. For that, we need to vary the confidence scores of our detections. 

> Figure 4 shows an example of the Precision-Recall curve. For a deeper exploration into the computation of this curve, the papers “[A Comparative Analysis of Object Detection Metrics with a Companion Open-Source Toolkit](https://www.mdpi.com/2079-9292/10/3/2790)” (Padilla, et al) and “[A Survey on Performance Metrics for Object-Detection Algorithms](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9145130)” (Padilla, et al) offer more detailed toy examples demonstrating how to compute this curve.

Author: I don't think they need special access. Although the links worked by my side, I removed them from the text and left them in the "Additional Resources" :)

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/pxr_te_iou075.png" alt="pxr_te_iou075.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 4: Precision x Recall curve for a target object “dog” considering TP detections using IoU_thresh = 0.75.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

> The precision-recall curve illustrates the balance between precision and recall based on different confidence levels of a detector's bounding boxes. Each point of the plot is computed using a different confidence value. 

Author: Agree! :smiley:  Made a pass through the text and replacing the term "precision and recall curve" by "precision-recall curve".

> Let's borrow the practical example presented in the paper [A Survey on performance metrics for object-detection algorithms](https://ieeexplore.ieee.org/document/9145130) to illustrate how to compute the Average Precision plot. Consider a dataset of 7 images with 15 ground-truth objects of the same class, as shown in Figure 5. Let's consider that all boxes belong to the same class, "dog" for simplification purposes.

Author: Here both links are opening normally. 🤷‍♂️
But I will remove the links from the text and leave them at the "Additional Resources".  :wink:

    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/table_1.png" alt="table_1.png" />
</center>
</div>

Note that by rule 2, in image 1, “E” is TP while “D” is FP because IoU between “E” and the ground-truth is greater than IoU between “D” and the ground-truth.

Now, we need to compute Precision and Recall for all confidence levels. A good way to do it is to sort the detections by their confidences and, for each confidence level, count how many TP would be left in the dataset. Then, we compute the precision and recall values for that particular confidence level, as shown in Table 2. The computation of each value of Table 2 can be viewed in [this Spread Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mc-KPDsNHW61ehRpI5BXoyAHmP-NxA52WxoMjBqk7pw/edit?usp=sharing).

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <figcaption> Table 2: Computation of Precision and Recall values of detections from Table 1.</figcaption>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/table_2.png" alt="table_2.png" />
</center>
</div>

> From top down, the accumulative TP (acc TP) column of Table 2 is increased in 1 every time a TP is noted, and the accumulative FP (acc FP) column is increased in 1 always when an FP is noted. Columns "acc TP" and "acc FP" basically tell us the TP and FP values given a particular confidence level. 

Author: If it is confusing, we need to rephrase this :)  
We do not "pick" a confidence interval. We simply consider the confidence values for each detection.
We first need to sort the detections (TP and FP) by their confidence levels as in Table 2. For each confidence value in each row, we need to compute the Precision and Recall considering its "acc TP" and "acc FP".

If I rephrase this paragraph and the previous one as

"
Now, we need to compute Precision and Recall considering the confidence value of each detection. A good way to do it is to sort the detections by their confidence values as shown in Table 2. Then, for each confidence value in each row, we compute the Precision and Recall considering the accumulative TP (acc TP) and accumlative FP (acc FP). The "acc TP" of each row is increased in 1 every time a TP is noted, and the "acc FP" is increased in 1 when a FP is noted. Columns "acc TP" and "acc FP" basically tell us the TP and FP values given a particular confidence level. The computation of each value of Table 2 can be viewed in [this Spread Sheet](https://docs.google.com/spreadsheets/d/1mc-KPDsNHW61ehRpI5BXoyAHmP-NxA52WxoMjBqk7pw/edit?usp=sharing).
"

Does it sound better? 🤔

> From top down, the accumulative TP (acc TP) column of Table 2 is increased in 1 every time a TP is noted, and the accumulative FP (acc FP) column is increased in 1 always when an FP is noted. Columns "acc TP" and "acc FP" basically tell us the TP and FP values given a particular confidence level. 

Reviewer 2: Yes - thank you!

> From top down, the accumulative TP (acc TP) column of Table 2 is increased in 1 every time a TP is noted, and the accumulative FP (acc FP) column is increased in 1 always when an FP is noted. Columns "acc TP" and "acc FP" basically tell us the TP and FP values given a particular confidence level. 

Author: We reformulated this part to make it easier to understand.

For example, consider the 12th row (detection “P”) of Table 2. The value "acc TP = 4" means that if we benchmark our model in this particular dataset with a confidence of 0.62, we would correctly detect four target objects and incorrectly detect eight target objects. This would result in \\( \text{Precision} =  \frac{\text{acc TP}}{(\text{acc TP} + \text{acc FP})} = \frac{4}{(4+8)} = 0.3333  \\) and \\( \text{Recall} =  \frac{\text{acc TP}}{\text{all ground truths}} = \frac{4}{15} = 0.2667 \\) .

> Now, we can plot the Precision x Recall curve with the values, as shown in Figure 6:

Author: I think the term "precision-recall" could be interpreted as "Recall subtracted from Precision".
So, I replaced it by "Precision x Recall". What do you think?

> Now, we can plot the Precision x Recall curve with the values, as shown in Figure 6:

Author: I think this suggestion is to keep consistency with the terms, as sometimes I call "precision-recall curve", and sometimes I call "Precision x Recall". 
So, I unified both terms as "Precision x Recall curve".

> Now, we can plot the Precision x Recall curve with the values, as shown in Figure 6:

Reviewer 3: I agree with always using the same nomenclature! But like @merveenoyan, I've always seen it as "Precision-Recall" though, not "Precision x Recall" (but it's ok if you think it's less ambiguous)

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/precision_recall_example.png" alt="precision_recall_example.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 6: Precision x Recall curve for the detections computed in Table 2.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

By examining the curve, one may infer the potential trade-offs between precision and recall and expect a model's optimal operating point based on a selected confidence threshold, even if this threshold is not explicitly depicted on the curve.

If a detector's confidence results in a few false positives (FP), it will likely have high precision. However, this might lead to missing many true positives (TP), causing a high false negative (FN) rate and, subsequently, low recall. On the other hand, accepting more positive detections can boost recall but might also raise the FP count, thereby reducing precision.

> **The area under the Precision-Recall curve (AUC) computed for a target class represents the Average Precision value for that particular class.** COCO evaluation approach refers to "AP" as the mean AUC value among all target classes in the image dataset, also referred to as Mean Average Precision (mAP) by other approaches.

Author: Same comment as before: Replaced "Precision-Recall curve" by "Precision x Recall curve". Is it OK?

> **The area under the Precision-Recall curve (AUC) computed for a target class represents the Average Precision value for that particular class.** COCO evaluation approach refers to "AP" as the mean AUC value among all target classes in the image dataset, also referred to as Mean Average Precision (mAP) by other approaches.

Author: Changed the term "Precision-recall curve" by "Precision x Recall curve"

For a very large dataset, the detector is likely to output boxes with a wide range of confidence levels, resulting in a jagged Precision x Recall line, making it challenging to precisely compute its AUC (Average Precision). Different methods approximate the area of the curve with different approaches A popular approach is the called N-interpolation approach, where N represents how many points are sampled from the Precision x Recall blue line.

COCO’s approach, for instance, uses 101-interpolation, which computes 101 points for equally spaced  recall values (0.  , 0.01, 0.02, … 1.00), while other approaches use 11 points, referred to as 11-interpolation. Figure 7 illustrates a Precision Recall curve (in blue) with 11 recall points equally spaced.

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/11-pointInterpolation.png" alt="11-pointInterpolation.png" />

>     <figcaption> Figure 7: Example of a Precision x Recall curve using the  11-interpolation approach. The 11 red dots are computed with Precision and Recall equations.</figcaption>

Author: Same comment here :)

>     <figcaption> Figure 7: Example of a Precision x Recall curve using the  11-interpolation approach. The 11 red dots are computed with Precision and Recall equations.</figcaption>

Author: Unified the terms as "Precision x Recall".

</center>
</div>

The red points are placed according to the following:

\\( \rho_{\text{interp}} (R) = \max_{\tilde{r}:\tilde{r} \geq r} \rho \left( \tilde{r} \right) \\)

where \\( \rho \left( \tilde{r} \right) \\) is the measured precision at recall \\( \tilde{r} \\).

In this definition, instead of using the precision value \\( \rho(R) \\) observed in each recall level \\( R \\), the precision \\( \rho_{\text{interp}} (R) \\) is obtained by considering the maximum precision whose recall value is greater than \\( R \\).

For this type of approach, the AUC, which represents the Average Precision, is approximated by the average of all points, and given by:

\\( \text{AP}_{11} = \frac{1}{11} = \sum\limits_{R\in \left \{ 0, 0.1, ...,1 \right \}} \rho_{\text{interp}} (R) \\)

### What's Average Recall and how to compute it?

> Average Recall (AR) is a metric that's often used alongside AP to evaluate object detection models. While AP evaluates both precision and recall across different confidence thresholds to provide a single-number summary of model performance, AR focuses solely on the recall aspect, not taking the confidences into account, considering all detections into positives.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Average Recall (AR) is a metric often used alongside AP to evaluate object detection models. While AP evaluates both precision and recall across different confidence thresholds to provide a single-number summary of model performance, AR focuses solely on the recall aspect, not taking the confidences into account, considering all detections as positives.
```

COCO’s approach computes AR as the mean of the maximum obtained recall over IOUs > 0.5 and classes. 

> When using IOUs in the range of [0.5, 1] for AR, by averaging recall values within this interval, the model is assessed based on the premise that the object's location is significantly accurate. Hence, if your goal is to evaluate your model for both high recall and precise object localization, AR could be a valuable evaluation metric to consider.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When using IOUs in the range of [0.5, 1] for AR, the model is assessed based on the premise that the object's location is significantly accurate by averaging recall values within this interval. Hence, if your goal is to evaluate your model for high recall and precise object localization, AR could be a valuable evaluation metric.
```

* **AP@[.5:.05:.95]**: also referred to AP by cocoeval tools: This is an expanded version of AP@.5 and AP@.75, as it computes AP@ with different IoU thresholds (0.5, 0.55, 0.6,...,0.95) and averages the computed results as shown in the following Equation. In comparison to AP@.5 and AP@.75, this metric provides a holistic evaluation, capturing a model’s performance across a broader range of localization accuracies.

\\( \text{AP@[.5:.05:0.95} = \frac{\text{AP}_{0.5} + \text{AP}_{0.55} + ... + \text{AP}_{0.95}}{10} \\)

* **AP-S**: It applies AP@[.5:.05:.95] considering (small) ground-truth objects with \\( \text{area} < 32^2 \\) pixels.
* **AP-M**: It applies AP@[.5:.05:.95] considering (medium-sized) ground-truth objects with \\( 32^2 < \text{area} < 96^2 \\) pixels.
* **AP-L**: It applies AP@[.5:.05:.95] considering (large) ground-truth objects with \\( 32^2 < \text{area} < 96^2\\) pixels.

For Average Recall (AR), 10 IoU thresholds (0.5, 0.55, 0.6,...,0.95) are used to compute the recall values. AR is computed by either limiting the number of detections per image or by limiting the detections based on the object's area.

* **AR-1**: considers up to 1 detection per image.

> * **AR-10**: considers up to 10 detection per image.
> * **AR-100**: considers up to 100 detection per image.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* **AR-10**: considers up to 10 detections per image.
* **AR-100**: considers up to 100 detections per image.
```

* **AR-S**: considers (small) objects with \\( \text{area} < 32^2 \\) pixels.
* **AR-M**: considers (medium-sized) objects with \\(  32^2 < \text{area} < 96^2 \\) pixels.
* **AR-L**: considers (large) objects with \\( \text{area} > 96^2 \\) pixels.

  
## Object Detection Leaderboard

> Recently, we have released the [Object Detection Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/rafaelpadilla/object_detection_leaderboard) to compare the accuracy and efficiency of open-source models from our Hub.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We recently released the [Object Detection Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/rafaelpadilla/object_detection_leaderboard) to compare the accuracy and efficiency of open-source models from our Hub. 
```

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/screenshot-leaderboard.png" alt="screenshot-leaderboard.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 8: Object Detection Leaderboard.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

To measure accuracy, we used 12 metrics involving Average Precision and Average Recall using [COCO style](https://cocodataset.org/#detection-eval), benchmarking over COCO val 2017 dataset.  

> As discussed previously, different tools may adopt different particularities during the evaluation, to prevent results mismatching, we prefered not to implement our own version of the metrics. Instead, we opted to use COCO's official evaluation code, also refered to as PyCOCOtools, code available [here](https://github.com/cocodataset/cocoapi/tree/master/PythonAPI).  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As discussed previously, different tools may adopt different particularities during the evaluation. To prevent results mismatching, we preferred not to implement our version of the metrics. Instead, we opted to use COCO's official evaluation code, also referred to as PyCOCOtools, code available [here](https://github.com/cocodataset/cocoapi/tree/master/PythonAPI). 
```

> In terms of efficiency, we calculate the frames per second (FPS) for each model by using the average evaluation time across the entire dataset, considering pre and post processing steps. Given the variability in GPU memory requirements for each model, we chose to evaluate with a batch size of 1 (this choice is also influenced by our pre-processing step, which we'll delve into later). However, it's worth noting that this approach may not align perfectly real-world performance, as larger batch sizes, often containing several images, are commonly used for better efficiency. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In terms of efficiency, we calculate the frames per second (FPS) for each model using the average evaluation time across the entire dataset, considering pre and post-processing steps. Given the variability in GPU memory requirements for each model, we chose to evaluate with a batch size of 1 (this choice is also influenced by our pre-processing step, which we'll delve into later). However, it's worth noting that this approach may not align perfectly with real-world performance, as larger batch sizes, often containing several images, are commonly used for better efficiency. 
```

> Next, we will provide tips on how to chose the bese model based on the metrics, and point out which parameters may interfer on the results. It's crucial to understand these nuances, as this might spark doubts and discussions within the community.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Next, we will provide tips on choosing the best model based on the metrics and point out which parameters may interfere with the results. Understanding these nuances is crucial, as this might spark doubts and discussions within the community.
```

### How to pick the best model based on the metrics?

> Selecting an appropriate metric to evaluate and compare object detectors takes into account several factors. The primary considerations include the purpose of the application and the characteristics of the dataset used to train and evaluate the models.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Selecting an appropriate metric to evaluate and compare object detectors considers several factors. The primary considerations include the application's purpose and the dataset's characteristics used to train and evaluate the models.
```

> For general performance, **AP (AP@[.5:.05:.95])** is a good choice if you want an all-rounded model across different IoU thresholds, without a hard requirement on the localization of the detected objects.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For general performance, **AP (AP@[.5:.05:.95])** is a good choice if you want an all-rounded model across different IoU thresholds without a hard requirement on the localization of the detected objects.
```

> If you want a model with good object recognition and objects generally in the right place, you can look at the **AP@.5**. But if you prefer a more accurate model in placing the bounding boxes, **AP@.75** is more appropriate.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If you want a model with good object recognition and objects generally in the right place, you can look at the **AP@.5**. But if you prefer a more accurate model for placing the bounding boxes, **AP@.75** is more appropriate.
```

If you have restrictions on object sizes, **AP-S**, **AP-M** and **AP-L** come into play. For example, if your dataset or application predominantly features small objects, AP-S provides insights into the detector's efficacy in recognizing such small targets. This becomes crucial in scenarios such as detecting distant vehicles or small artifacts in medical imaging.

### Which parameters can impact the Average Precision results?

By picking an object detection models in 🤗 Hugging Face’s hub, we can vary the output boxes by trying different parameters in the model’s pre processing and post processing functions. There are some approaches that may influce the assessment metrics. We separated the mostly common factors that may lead to variations in the results:  

> * Disconsider detections by thresholding detections by their scores.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Ignore detections that have a score under a certain threshold.  
```

> By picking an object detection models in 🤗 Hugging Face’s hub, we can vary the output boxes by trying different parameters in the model’s pre processing and post processing functions. There are some approaches that may influce the assessment metrics. We separated the mostly common factors that may lead to variations in the results:  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
By picking an object detection model in the Hub, we can vary the output boxes by trying different parameters in the model's pre-processing and post-processing functions. There are some approaches that may influence the assessment metrics. We separated the most common factors that may lead to variations in the results: 
```

> * Use ```batch_sizes > 1``` for inference.  

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
* Use `batch_sizes > 1` for inference.  
```

* Ported models do not output the same logits as the original models.  
* Some ground-truth objects may be ignored by the evaluator.  
* Computing the IoU may be complicated.

> * Text-conditioned models requires precise prompts.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Text-conditioned models require precise prompts.
```

#### Thresholding detections before evaluation

Our sample model uses `DetrImageProcessor` [class](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/detr#transformers.DetrImageProcessor) to process the bounding boxes and logits, as shown in the snippet below:

```python 
from transformers import DetrImageProcessor, DetrForObjectDetection
import torch
from PIL import Image
import requests

url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)

processor=DetrImageProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/detr-resnet-50")
model=DetrForObjectDetection.from_pretrained("facebook/detr-resnet-50")

inputs = processor(images=image, return_tensors="pt")
outputs = model(**inputs)

# PIL images have their size in (w, h) format
target_sizes = torch.tensor([image.size[::-1]])
results=processor.post_process_object_detection(outputs, target_sizes=target_sizes, threshold=0.5)

```

The parameter ```threshold``` in function ```post_prcess_object_detection``` is used to filter the detected bounding boxes based on their confidence scores.

> As previously discusssed, the Precision x Recall curve is built by measuring the Precision and Recall across the full range of confidence values [0,1]. Thus, limiting the detections before evaluation will produce biased results, as we will be leaving some detections apart.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As previously discussed, the Precision-Recall curve is built by measuring the Precision and Recall across the full range of confidence values [0,1]. Thus, limiting the detections before evaluation will produce biased results, as we will leave some detections apart. 
```

#### Varying the batch size

> The batch size not only affects the processing time, but may also result in different detected boxes. The image preprocessing step may change the resolution of the input images based on their sizes.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The batch size not only affects the processing time but may also result in different detected boxes. The image pre-processing step may change the resolution of the input images based on their sizes.
```

> In Detr documentation we see that: By default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is at least a certain amount of pixels while the longest is at most 1333 pixels. At inference time, the shortest side is set to 800. Due to this resizing, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch, and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
As mentioned in DETR documentation, by default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is at least a certain amount of pixels while the longest is at most 1333 pixels. At inference time, the shortest side is set to 800. Due to this resizing, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.
```

> In Detr documentation we see that: By default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is at least a certain amount of pixels while the longest is at most 1333 pixels. At inference time, the shortest side is set to 800. Due to this resizing, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch, and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.

Reviewer 2: We don't change the resizing values based on whether we're in training time vs inference

```suggestion
In the DETR documentation we see that, by default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is 800 pixels, and resizes again so that the longest is at most 1333 pixels. Due to this, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch, and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.```

> In Detr documentation we see that: By default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is at least a certain amount of pixels while the longest is at most 1333 pixels. At inference time, the shortest side is set to 800. Due to this resizing, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch, and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.

Reviewer 2: I would be good to link to the documentation here

> In Detr documentation we see that: By default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is at least a certain amount of pixels while the longest is at most 1333 pixels. At inference time, the shortest side is set to 800. Due to this resizing, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch, and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In Detr documentation we see that: By default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is at least a certain amount of pixels while the longest is at most 1333 pixels. At inference time, the shortest side is set to 800. Due to this resizing, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch and creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.
```

Author: This part was rewritten as suggested by @amyeroberts

> To illustrate this process, let's consider the examples in Figure 9 and Figure 10. In Figure 9, we consider batch size = 1, so both images are processed independelty with `DetrImageProcessor`. The first image is resized to `(800, 1201)`, making the detector predict 28 boxes with class `vase`, 22 boxes with class `chair`, 10 boxes with class `bottle`, etc.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To illustrate this process, let's consider the examples in Figure 9 and Figure 10. In Figure 9, we consider batch size = 1, so both images are processed independently with `DetrImageProcessor`. The first image is resized to `(800, 1201)`, making the detector predict 28 boxes with class `vase`, 22 boxes with class `chair`, ten boxes with class `bottle`, etc.
```

> Figure 10 shows the process with batch size = 2, where the same two images are processed with `DetrImageProcessor` in the same batch. Both images are resized to have the same shape `(873, 1201)` and padding is applied, so the part of the images with the content is keept with their original aspect ratios. However, the first image, for instance, outputs different number of objects: 31 boxes with class `vase`, 20 boxes with class `chair`, 8 boxes with class `bottle`, etc. Note that for the second image, with batch size = 2, a new class is detected `dog`. This occurs due the capacity of the model to detect objects with different sizes depending on the image's resolution.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Figure 10 shows the process with batch size = 2, where the same two images are processed with `DetrImageProcessor` in the same batch. Both images are resized to have the same shape `(873, 1201)`, and padding is applied, so the part of the images with the content is kept with their original aspect ratios. However, the first image, for instance, outputs a different number of objects: 31 boxes with the class `vase`, 20 boxes with the class `chair`, eight boxes with the class `bottle`, etc. Note that for the second image, with batch size = 2, a new class is detected `dog`. This occurs due to the model's capacity to detect objects of different sizes depending on the image's resolution.
```

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/example_batch_size_1.png" alt="example_batch_size_1.png" />

>     <figcaption> Figure 9: Two images proccessed with `DetrImageProcessor` using batch size = 1.</figcaption>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <figcaption> Figure 9: Two images processed with `DetrImageProcessor` using batch size = 1.</figcaption>
```

</center>
</div>

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="/blog/assets/object-detection-leaderboard/example_batch_size_2.png" alt="example_batch_size_2.png" />

>     <figcaption> Figure 10: Two images proccessed with `DetrImageProcessor` using batch size = 2.</figcaption>

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    <figcaption> Figure 10: Two images processed with `DetrImageProcessor` using batch size = 2.</figcaption>
```

</center>
</div>

#### Ported models should output the same logits as the original models

> At HuggingFace, we are very criterious while porting models to our code base. Not only with respect to the architecture, clear documentation and coding structure, but we also need to guarantee that the ported models are able to produce the same logits as the original models given the same inputs.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
At Hugging Face, we are very careful when porting models to our code base. Not only with respect to the architecture, clear documentation and coding structure, but we also need to guarantee that the ported models are able to produce the same logits as the original models given the same inputs.
```

> At HuggingFace, we are very criterious while porting models to our code base. Not only with respect to the architecture, clear documentation and coding structure, but we also need to guarantee that the ported models are able to produce the same logits as the original models given the same inputs.

Author: Merged this suggestion with another one.

> Small variations may result in different metric results for the object detection task when the model's outputs are post-processed to produce the confidence scores, label IDs, and bounding box coordinates. You may recall [the example above](#what-is-average-precision-and-how-to-compute-it), where we discussed the process of computing Average Precision. We showed that confidence levels sort the detections, and small variations may lead to a different order and, thus, different results.

Author: Sure. It looks confusing. 
I will rewrite it.

> Small variations may result in different metric results for the object detection task when the model's outputs are post-processed to produce the confidence scores, label IDs, and bounding box coordinates. You may recall [the example above](#what-is-average-precision-and-how-to-compute-it), where we discussed the process of computing Average Precision. We showed that confidence levels sort the detections, and small variations may lead to a different order and, thus, different results.

Author: Done!

> For the object detection task, when the model's outputs are post processed to produce the confidence scores, label ids and bounding box coordinates, small variations may result different metric results. You may recall [the example above](#what-is-average-precision-and-how-to-compute-it) where we discussed the process of computing Average Precision. We showed that the detections are sorted by confidence levels and small variations may lead to a different order and, thus, different results.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Small variations may result in different metric results for the object detection task when the model's outputs are post-processed to produce the confidence scores, label IDs, and bounding box coordinates. You may recall [the example above](#what-is-average-precision-and-how-to-compute-it), where we discussed the process of computing Average Precision. We showed that confidence levels sort the detections, and small variations may lead to a different order and, thus, different results.
```

It's important to recognize that models can produce boxes in various formats, and that also may be taken into consideration, making proper conversions required by the evaluator.

* `(x, y, width, height)`: this represents the upper-left corner coordinates followed by the absolute dimensions (width and height).
* `(x, y, x2, y2)`: this format indicates the coordinates of the upper-left corner and the lower-right corner.
* `(rel_x_center, rel_y_center, rel_width, rel_height)`: the values represent the relative coordinates of the center and the relative dimensions of the box.

#### Some ground-truths are ignored in some benchmarking datasets

Some datasets use special labels for some objects, which are used to ignore such objects during the evaluation process.

COCO, for instance, uses the tag `iscrowd` to label large groups of objects (e.g. many apples in a basket). During the evaluation, objects tagged as `iscrowd=1` are ignored. If this is not taken into consideration by evaluators, your may have different results for the metrics.

#### Calculating the IoU requires careful consideration

> IoU, or Intersection over Union, might seem straightforward to calculate based on its definition. However, there's a crucial detail to be aware of: if the ground-truth and the detection don't overlap at all, not even by one pixel, the IoU should be `0`.  To ensure this, especially to avoid dividing by zero when calculating the union, you can add a small value (called _epsilon_ ), to the denominator. However, it's essential to choose the epsilon carefully. An epsilon value greater than 1e-4 might not be neutral enough to give an accurate result.

Reviewer 2: Adding epsilon doesn't ensure we have 0 when there's no overlap

```suggestion
IoU, or Intersection over Union, might seem straightforward to calculate based on its definition. However, there's a crucial detail to be aware of: if the ground-truth and the detection don't overlap at all, not even by one pixel, the IoU should be `0`.  To avoid dividing by zero when calculating the union, you can add a small value (called _epsilon_ ), to the denominator. However, it's essential to choose the epsilon carefully. An epsilon value greater than 1e-4 might not be neutral enough to give an accurate result.
```

Author: That's right. It sounded strange. Thanks :)

> #### Text-conditioned models demands the right prompts  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
#### Text-conditioned models demand the right prompts 
```

> There might be cases that we want to evaluate text-conditioned models such as [OWL-ViT](https://huggingface.co/google/owlvit-base-patch32), which are able to receive a text prompt and provide the location of the desired object.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
There might be cases in which we want to evaluate text-conditioned models such as [OWL-ViT](https://huggingface.co/google/owlvit-base-patch32), which can receive a text prompt and provide the location of the desired object.
```

> For such models, different prompts (e.g. "Find the dog" and "Where's the bulldog?") may result in the same results. However, we decide to follow the same the procedure described in each paper. For the OWL-ViT, for instance, we predict the objects by using the prompts "an image of a {}" where {} is replaced with the benchmarking dataset's classes. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For such models, different prompts (e.g. "Find the dog" and "Where's the bulldog?") may result in the same results. However, we decided to follow the procedure described in each paper. For the OWL-ViT, for instance, we predict the objects by using the prompt "an image of a {}" where {} is replaced with the benchmarking dataset's classes. 
```

## Conclusions

In this post, we introduced the problem of Object Detection and depicted the main metrics used to evaluate them.

> As noted, evaluating object detection models may take more work than it looks. The particularities of each model must be carefully taken into consideration to prevent biased results. Also, each metric represents a different point of view of the same model, and picking "the best" metric depends on the model's application and the characteristics of the chosen benchmarking dataset. 

Reviewer 2: Big +1 to this!

> As noted, evaluating object detection models may take more work than it looks. The particularities of each model must be carefully taken into consideration to prevent biased results. Also, each metric represents a different point of view of the same model, and picking "the best" metric depends on the model's application and the characteristics of the chosen benchmarking dataset. 

Author: Loved the suggestion! :) 
Added :point_down:

> As noted, evaluating object detection models may not be straightforward as it looks. The particularities of each model must be carefully taken into consideration to prevent biased results. Also, each metric represents a different point of view of the same model and picking "the best" metric depends on the model's application and the caracteristics of the chosen benchmarking dataset.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
As noted, evaluating object detection models may take more work than it looks. The particularities of each model must be carefully taken into consideration to prevent biased results. Also, each metric represents a different point of view of the same model, and picking "the best" metric depends on the model's application and the characteristics of the chosen benchmarking dataset. 
```

> The results shown in our 🤗 [Object Detection Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/rafaelpadilla/object_detection_leaderboard) are computed using an independent tool [PyCOCOtools](https://github.com/cocodataset/cocoapi/tree/master/PythonAPI) broadly used by the community for model benchmarking. As we progress, we are aiming for datasets of different domains (e.g. medical images, sports, autonomous vehicles, etc). Eager to see your model or dataset feature on our leaderboard? Don't hold back! Introduce us to your model and dataset, fine-tune, and let's get it ranked! 🥇

Reviewer 2: * "broadly used" -> reads that it's roughly used  
* It would be good here to link to the discussions page and indicate how people can make requests for datasets, models and features

```suggestion
The results shown in our 🤗 [Object Detection Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/rafaelpadilla/object_detection_leaderboard) are computed using an independent tool [PyCOCOtools](https://github.com/cocodataset/cocoapi/tree/master/PythonAPI) widely used by the community for model benchmarking. We're aiming to  for datasets of different domains (e.g. medical images, sports, autonomous vehicles, etc). Eager to see your model or dataset feature on our leaderboard? Don't hold back! Introduce us to your model and dataset, fine-tune, and let's get it ranked! 🥇
```

    - [Which parameters can impact the Average Precision results?](#which-parameters-can-impact-the-average-precision-results)  
- [Conclusions](#conclusions)  
- [Additional Resources](#additional-resources)  

## What's Object Detection?

In the field of Computer Vision, Object Detection refers to the technique of identifying and localizing individual objects within an image or a video frame. Unlike image classification, where the task is to determine the predominant object or scene in the image, object detection not only categorizes the object classes present but also provides spatial information, drawing bounding boxes around each detected object. An object detector can also output a "score", also referred to as "confidence". It represents the probability that the detected object truly belongs to the predicted class for each bounding box.

The following image, for instance, shows five detections: one "ball" with a confidence of 98% and four "person" with a confidence of 98%, 95%, 97%, and 97%.

<!-- ![image](assets/object-detection-leaderboard/intro_object_detection.png)
Figure 1: Example of outputs performed by an object detector. -->

> <div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">

Author: Just checked all images in codespaces and they are rendering.
The markdown was commented out. Will remove that. :)

However, the detectors' diversity goes beyond the range of output classes they can recognize. They vary in terms of underlying architectures, model sizes, processing speeds, and prediction accuracy.

A popular metric used to evaluate the accuracy of predictions made by an object detection model is the **Average Precision (AP)** and its variants, which will be explained later in this blog.

Evaluating an object detection model encompasses several components, like a dataset with ground-truth annotations, detections (output prediction), and metrics. This process is depicted in the schematic provided in Figure 2:

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/object-detection-leaderboard/pipeline_object_detection.png" alt="pipeline_object_detection.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 2: Schematic illustrating the evaluation process for a traditional object detection model.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

> It is not depicted in Figure 2, but as previously mentioned, certain models require text prompt inputs to provide guidance on the specific classes the model is intended to detect.

Author: ok :)

First, a benchmarking dataset containing images with ground-truth bounding box annotations is chosen and fed into the object detection model. The model predicts bounding boxes for each image, assigning associated class labels and confidence scores to each box. During the evaluation phase, these predicted bounding boxes are compared with the ground-truth boxes in the dataset. The evaluation yields a set of metrics, each ranging between [0, 1], reflecting a specific evaluation criteria. In the next section, we'll dive into the computation of the metrics in detail.

## Metrics

This section will delve into the definition of Average Precision and Average Recall, their variations, and their associated computation methodologies.

### What's Average Precision and how to compute it?

> Average Precision (AP) is a metric used to evaluate the performance of an object detection model. AP is a single-number that summarizes the Precision x Recall curve. But before we dive into the details showing how Precision x Recall curve is generated and how to compute Average Precision with it, first we need to understand what Intersection over Union (IoU) is, and how to classify a detection as True Positive or False Positive.

Author: Way simpler! :) Thanks!

<p style="text-align: center;">
\\( \text{Precision} = \frac{TP}{(TP + FP)} = \frac{TP}{\text{all detections}} \\)
</p>

which translates to the ratio of true positives over all detected boxes.

* **Recall** gauges a model’s competence in finding all the relevant cases (all ground truth bounding boxes). It indicates the proportion of TP detected among all ground truths and is given by:

<p style="text-align: center;">
\\( \text{Recall} = \frac{TP}{(TP + FN)} = \frac{TP}{\text{all ground truths}} \\)
</p>

Note that TP, FP, and FN depend on a predefined IoU threshold, as do Precision and Recall.

Average Precision captures the ability of a model to classify and localize objects correctly considering different values of Precision and Recall. For that we'll illustrate the relationship between Precision and Recall by plotting their respective curves for a specific target class, say "dog". We'll adopt a moderate IoU threshold = 75% to delineate our TP, FP and FN. Subsequently, we can compute the Precision and Recall values. For that, we need to vary the confidence scores of our detections. 

> Figure 4 shows an example of the Precision x Recall curve. For a deeper exploration into the computation of this curve, the papers “A Comparative Analysis of Object Detection Metrics with a Companion Open-Source Toolkit” (Padilla, et al) and “A Survey on Performance Metrics for Object-Detection Algorithms” (Padilla, et al) offer more detailed toy examples demonstrating how to compute this curve.

Author: It was suggested to leave it in the last section (Additional Resources). So I just left them there. :)

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/object-detection-leaderboard/pxr_te_iou075.png" alt="pxr_te_iou075.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 4: Precision x Recall curve for a target object “dog” considering TP detections using IoU_thresh = 0.75.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

The Precision x Recall curve illustrates the balance between Precision and Recall based on different confidence levels of a detector's bounding boxes. Each point of the plot is computed using a different confidence value. 

> Let's borrow the practical example presented in the paper "A Survey on performance metrics for object-detection algorithms" to illustrate how to compute the Average Precision plot. Consider a dataset of 7 images with 15 ground-truth objects of the same class, as shown in Figure 5. Let's consider that all boxes belong to the same class, "dog" for simplification purposes.

Author: Agree. 
Just removed the mention of the paper:
"To demonstrate how to calculate the Average Precision plot, we'll use a practical example from one of the papers mentioned earlier. Consider a dataset of 7 images with 15 ground-truth objects of the same class, as shown in Figure 5. Let's consider that all boxes belong to the same class, "dog" for simplification purposes."

    <figcaption> Figure 6: Precision x Recall curve for the detections computed in Table 2.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

By examining the curve, one may infer the potential trade-offs between Precision and Recall and find a model's optimal operating point based on a selected confidence threshold, even if this threshold is not explicitly depicted on the curve.

If a detector's confidence results in a few false positives (FP), it will likely have high Precision. However, this might lead to missing many true positives (TP), causing a high false negative (FN) rate and, subsequently, low Recall. On the other hand, accepting more positive detections can boost Recall but might also raise the FP count, thereby reducing Precision.

**The area under the Precision x Recall curve (AUC) computed for a target class represents the Average Precision value for that particular class.** The COCO evaluation approach refers to "AP" as the mean AUC value among all target classes in the image dataset, also referred to as Mean Average Precision (mAP) by other approaches.

> For a large dataset, the detector will likely output boxes with a wide range of confidence levels, resulting in a jagged Precision x Recall line, making it challenging to compute its AUC (Average Precision) precisely. Different methods approximate the area of the curve with different approaches. A popular approach is called the N-interpolation approach, where N represents how many points are sampled from the Precision x Recall blue line.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
For a large dataset, the detector will likely output boxes with a wide range of confidence levels, resulting in a jagged Precision x Recall line, making it challenging to compute its AUC (Average Precision) precisely. Different methods approximate the area of the curve with different approaches. A popular approach is called N-interpolation, where N represents how many points are sampled from the Precision x Recall blue line.
```

> COCO approach, for instance, uses 101-interpolation, which computes 101 points for equally spaced Recall values (0. , 0.01, 0.02, … 1.00), while other approaches use 11 points, referred to as 11-interpolation. Figure 7 illustrates a Precision x Recall curve (in blue) with 11 equal-spaced Recall points. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
The COCO approach, for instance, uses 101-interpolation, which computes 101 points for equally spaced Recall values (0. , 0.01, 0.02, … 1.00), while other approaches use 11 points (11-interpolation). Figure 7 illustrates a Precision x Recall curve (in blue) with 11 equal-spaced Recall points. 
```

    <figcaption> Figure 7: Example of a Precision x Recall curve using the  11-interpolation approach. The 11 red dots are computed with Precision and Recall equations.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

The red points are placed according to the following:

<p style="text-align: center;">
\\( \rho_{\text{interp}} (R) = \max_{\tilde{r}:\tilde{r} \geq r} \rho \left( \tilde{r} \right) \\)
</p>

where \\( \rho \left( \tilde{r} \right) \\) is the measured Precision at Recall \\( \tilde{r} \\).

In this definition, instead of using the Precision value \\( \rho(R) \\) observed in each Recall level \\( R \\), the Precision \\( \rho_{\text{interp}} (R) \\) is obtained by considering the maximum Precision whose Recall value is greater than \\( R \\).

For this type of approach, the AUC, which represents the Average Precision, is approximated by the average of all points and given by:

<p style="text-align: center;">
\\( \text{AP}_{11} = \frac{1}{11} = \sum\limits_{R\in \left \{ 0, 0.1, ...,1 \right \}} \rho_{\text{interp}} (R) \\)
</p>

### What's Average Recall and how to compute it?

> Average Recall (AR) is a metric that's often used alongside AP to evaluate object detection models. While AP evaluates both Precision and Recall across different confidence thresholds to provide a single-number summary of model performance, AR focuses solely on the Recall aspect, not taking the confidences into account, considering all detections into positives.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Average Recall (AR) is a metric that's often used alongside AP to evaluate object detection models. While AP evaluates both Precision and Recall across different confidence thresholds to provide a single-number summary of model performance, AR focuses solely on the Recall aspect, not taking the confidences into account and considering all detections as positives.
```

(If I understood it correctly)

  
## Object Detection Leaderboard

We recently released the [Object Detection Leaderboard](https://huggingface.co/spaces/rafaelpadilla/object_detection_leaderboard) to compare the accuracy and efficiency of open-source models from our Hub. 

<div display="block" margin-left="auto" margin-right="auto" width="50%">
<center>
    <img src="https://huggingface.co/datasets/huggingface/documentation-images/resolve/main/blog/object-detection-leaderboard/screenshot-leaderboard.png" alt="screenshot-leaderboard.png" />
    <figcaption> Figure 8: Object Detection Leaderboard.</figcaption>
</center>
</div>

To measure accuracy, we used 12 metrics involving Average Precision and Average Recall using [COCO style](https://cocodataset.org/#detection-eval), benchmarking over COCO val 2017 dataset.  

As discussed previously, different tools may adopt different particularities during the evaluation. To prevent results mismatching, we preferred not to implement our version of the metrics. Instead, we opted to use COCO's official evaluation code, also referred to as PyCOCOtools, code available [here](https://github.com/cocodataset/cocoapi/tree/master/PythonAPI). 

> In terms of efficiency, we calculate the frames per second (FPS) for each model using the average evaluation time across the entire dataset, considering pre and post-processing steps. Given the variability in GPU memory requirements for each model, we chose to evaluate with a batch size of 1 (this choice is also influenced by our pre-processing step, which we'll delve into later). However, it's worth noting that this approach may not align perfectly with real-world performance, as larger batch sizes, often containing several images, are commonly used for better efficiency. 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
In terms of efficiency, we calculate the frames per second (FPS) for each model using the average evaluation time across the entire dataset, considering pre and post-processing steps. Given the variability in GPU memory requirements for each model, we chose to evaluate with a batch size of 1 (this choice is also influenced by our pre-processing step, which we'll delve into later). However, it's worth noting that this approach may not align perfectly with real-world performance, as larger batch sizes (often containing several images), are commonly used for better efficiency. 
```

### How to pick the best model based on the metrics?

Selecting an appropriate metric to evaluate and compare object detectors considers several factors. The primary considerations include the application's purpose and the dataset's characteristics used to train and evaluate the models.

For general performance, **AP (AP@[.5:.05:.95])** is a good choice if you want all-round model performance across different IoU thresholds, without a hard requirement on the localization of the detected objects.

If you want a model with good object recognition and objects generally in the right place, you can look at the **AP@.5**. If you prefer a more accurate model for placing the bounding boxes, **AP@.75** is more appropriate.

If you have restrictions on object sizes, **AP-S**, **AP-M** and **AP-L** come into play. For example, if your dataset or application predominantly features small objects, AP-S provides insights into the detector's efficacy in recognizing such small targets. This becomes crucial in scenarios such as detecting distant vehicles or small artifacts in medical imaging.

### Which parameters can impact the Average Precision results?

> By picking an object detection model in the Hub, we can vary the output boxes by trying different parameters in the model's pre-processing and post-processing functions. There are some approaches that may influence the assessment metrics. We separated the most common factors that may lead to variations in the results: 

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
After picking an object detection model from the Hub, we can vary the output boxes if we use different parameters in the model's pre-processing and post-processing steps. These may influence the assessment metrics. We identified some of the most common factors that may lead to variations in results: 
```

I find this a bit confusing to follow.

* Ignore detections that have a score under a certain threshold.  
* Use `batch_sizes > 1` for inference.  
* Ported models do not output the same logits as the original models.  

> * Some ground-truth objects may be ignored by the evaluator.  

Reviewer 3: Why would this be the case? Edit: saw the topic later in the post.

Author: This part just mentions the factors that influence the metrics, and later on, they will be explained in details.
But your comment is very valuable :) I could add the bold part to avoid any confusion: "We identified some of the most common factors that may lead to variations in results, **which will be detailed further.**."

What do you think?

* Computing the IoU may be complicated.

> * Text-conditioned models require precise prompts.

Reviewer 3: We've largely ignored them here, I think.

Author: Actually there's a small subsection "Text-conditioned models demand the right prompts" to explain how text-conditioned models should be evaluated.

Reviewer 3: Yes, you are right, I saw it later!

Let’s take the DEtection TRansformer (DETR) ([facebook/detr-resnet-50](https://huggingface.co/facebook/detr-resnet-50)) model as our example case. We will show how these factors may affect the output results.

#### Thresholding detections before evaluation

> Our sample model uses `DetrImageProcessor` [class](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/detr#transformers.DetrImageProcessor) to process the bounding boxes and logits, as shown in the snippet below:

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Our sample model uses the [`DetrImageProcessor` class](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/main/en/model_doc/detr#transformers.DetrImageProcessor) to process the bounding boxes and logits, as shown in the snippet below:
```

```python 
from transformers import DetrImageProcessor, DetrForObjectDetection
import torch
from PIL import Image
import requests

url = "http://images.cocodataset.org/val2017/000000039769.jpg"
image = Image.open(requests.get(url, stream=True).raw)

> processor=DetrImageProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/detr-resnet-50")
> model=DetrForObjectDetection.from_pretrained("facebook/detr-resnet-50")

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
processor = DetrImageProcessor.from_pretrained("facebook/detr-resnet-50")
model = DetrForObjectDetection.from_pretrained("facebook/detr-resnet-50")
```

inputs = processor(images=image, return_tensors="pt")
outputs = model(**inputs)

# PIL images have their size in (w, h) format
target_sizes = torch.tensor([image.size[::-1]])

> results=processor.post_process_object_detection(outputs, target_sizes=target_sizes, threshold=0.5)

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
results = processor.post_process_object_detection(outputs, target_sizes=target_sizes, threshold=0.5)
```

#### Varying the batch size

The batch size not only affects the processing time but may also result in different detected boxes. The image pre-processing step may change the resolution of the input images based on their sizes.

As mentioned in [DETR documentation](https://huggingface.co/docs/transformers/model_doc/detr), by default, `DetrImageProcessor` resizes the input images such that the shortest side is 800 pixels, and resizes again so that the longest is at most 1333 pixels. Due to this, images in a batch can have different sizes. DETR solves this by padding images up to the largest size in a batch, and by creating a pixel mask that indicates which pixels are real/which are padding.

To illustrate this process, let's consider the examples in Figure 9 and Figure 10. In Figure 9, we consider batch size = 1, so both images are processed independently with `DetrImageProcessor`. The first image is resized to (800, 1201), making the detector predict 28 boxes with class `vase`, 22 boxes with class `chair`, ten boxes with class `bottle`, etc.

> Figure 10 shows the process with batch size = 2, where the same two images are processed with `DetrImageProcessor` in the same batch. Both images are resized to have the same shape (873, 1201), and padding is applied, so the part of the images with the content is kept with their original aspect ratios. However, the first image, for instance, outputs a different number of objects: 31 boxes with the class `vase`, 20 boxes with the class `chair`, eight boxes with the class `bottle`, etc. Note that for the second image, with batch size = 2, a new class is detected `dog`. This occurs due to the model's capacity to detect objects of different sizes depending on the image's resolution.

Reviewer 3: Maybe move just before the figure is displayed.

Author: Agree. Looks better and more organized :) 
Done!

The logits output by a model are post-processed to produce the confidence scores, label IDs, and bounding box coordinates. Thus, minor changes in the logits can influence the metrics results. You may recall [the example above](#whats-average-precision-and-how-to-compute-it), where we discussed the process of computing Average Precision. We showed that confidence levels sort the detections, and small variations may lead to a different order and, thus, different results.

It's important to recognize that models can produce boxes in various formats, and that also may be taken into consideration, making proper conversions required by the evaluator.

* *(x, y, width, height)*: this represents the upper-left corner coordinates followed by the absolute dimensions (width and height).
* *(x, y, x2, y2)*: this format indicates the coordinates of the upper-left corner and the lower-right corner.
* *(rel_x_center, rel_y_center, rel_width, rel_height)*: the values represent the relative coordinates of the center and the relative dimensions of the box.

#### Some ground-truths are ignored in some benchmarking datasets

> Some datasets use special labels for some objects, which are used to ignore such objects during the evaluation process.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
Some datasets sometimes use special labels that are ignored during the evaluation process.
```

> COCO, for instance, uses the tag `iscrowd` to label large groups of objects (e.g. many apples in a basket). During the evaluation, objects tagged as `iscrowd=1` are ignored. If this is not taken into consideration by evaluators, your may have different results for the metrics.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
COCO, for instance, uses the tag `iscrowd` to label large groups of objects (e.g. many apples in a basket). During evaluation, objects tagged as `iscrowd=1` are ignored. If this is not taken into consideration, you may obtain different results.
```

#### Calculating the IoU requires careful consideration

> IoU might seem straightforward to calculate based on its definition. However, there's a crucial detail to be aware of: if the ground truth and the detection don't overlap at all, not even by one pixel, the IoU should be 0.  To avoid dividing by zero when calculating the union, you can add a small value (called _epsilon_ ), to the denominator. However, it's essential to choose the epsilon carefully. An epsilon value greater than 1e-4 might not be neutral enough to give an accurate result.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
IoU might seem straightforward to calculate based on its definition. However, there's a crucial detail to be aware of: if the ground truth and the detection don't overlap at all, not even by one pixel, the IoU should be 0.  To avoid dividing by zero when calculating the union, you can add a small value (called _epsilon_), to the denominator. However, it's essential to choose epsilon carefully: a value greater than 1e-4 might not be neutral enough to give an accurate result.
```
